An introduction to the book of Ruth.
The prophet Samuel is believed
to be the writer of this book.
The book of Ruth was completed
about 1090 B.C.E.
The events related cover a period
early in the time of the Judges.
The book takes its name
from one of its principal characters,
Ruth the Moabitess.
The other main characters
are Naomi and Boaz.
In chapter 1,
a famine moves a man named Elimelech
to take his family from Bethlehem
to the land of Moab.
In Moab, Elimelech dies.
His sons, Mahlon and Chilion,
marry the Moabite women Ruth and Orpah.
Some ten years later,
both sons also die.
Naomi, in deep despair,
decides to return to Bethlehem.
She urges her daughters-in-law
to go back to their families.
Orpah returns “to her people.”
Ruth, however, sticks loyally to Naomi.
When the two widows arrive at Bethlehem,
the barley harvest has just begun.
In chapter 2,
Ruth, by chance,
gleans in a field belonging to Boaz,
who is related to Naomi’s late husband.
Recognizing Ruth’s fine qualities,
Boaz tells her
to continue gleaning in his fields.
When Ruth later tells Naomi
that she had gleaned
in the fields of a man named Boaz,
Naomi says: “The man is related to us.
He is one of our repurchasers.”
In chapter 3,
Naomi instructs Ruth
to ask Boaz to act as repurchaser.
He and Ruth
could then raise up offspring for Naomi
in order to carry on
the family line of Elimelech.
Boaz is willing to perform this loving deed.
But he tells Ruth
that Naomi has a closer male relative
who could repurchase her.
In chapter 4,
Boaz goes to the Bethlehem city gate
where he meets with the other male relative,
who is referred to as “So-and-so.”
When the relative,
in the presence of ten city elders,
learns of his obligations,
he declines to help.
Boaz then publicly accepts
the responsibilities of repurchaser.
Boaz now marries Ruth,
and they have a son,
whom the “neighbor women” name Obed.
Did you know?
Boaz set a fine example
of obedience to Jehovah.
He did all in his power
to help Naomi and Ruth
by applying God’s law on repurchase,
taking no shortcuts.
The book concludes:
“Obed became father to Jesse;
and Jesse became father to David,”
who became a king of Israel
and an ancestor of the Messiah.
As you read the book of Ruth,
see how Jehovah turns tragedy into triumph,
observe how he rewards those
who love and obey him,
and note how the book contributes
to the history of David’s family line,
which produced the King of God’s Kingdom.